if building your own gaming PC is better
than buying a stuffy pre-built one then
why not build your own power supply
instead of buying a stuffy pre-built one
performance availability compatibility
safety okay all right Buzz kills but it
is absolutely possible with
off-the-shelf components and a can do
attitude you don't even have to assemble
that much Pico power supply modules like
this one used to be expensive hard to
find but these days you can get ones
that claim to handle up to a mid-tier
gaming PC for as little as 20 to 30
us of course you will need some
additional bits but by the time we were
finished and this really is it we had a
power supply for under $40 that not only
Powers the gaming PC that you're looking
at right here but even survived a trip
to the lab with what I would call
acceptable results so why don't people
do this all the time well let me put it
this way when seic heard we were going
to attempt this they volunteered to
sponsor the video as a demonstration of
their confidence that nothing we show
you today is going to harm their sales
all right seic challenge
accepted let's lay out our plan starting
with a run down of these things we call
them PCO psus but in a world first
somehow the AliExpress description might
be more appropriate than our generally
accepted term because this is not a
power supply at least not in the way
that we'd think of it it's got some
power supply characteristics like it's
24 pin ATX connector that goes into your
motherboard it's step down converters
for 3.3 and 5vt as well as a few small
capacitors for smoothing but what it LAX
is any way of converting your household
AC to the DC power that your electronics
absolutely need in order to function
that is the part of your traditional
power supply that realistically is doing
the heavy lifting and the 12vt power
brick that you need in order to make one
of these fully functional pretty much
wipes out any potential savings from a
DIY unit at least it would if we had to
buy one 12volt power is used for all
kinds of things like smart lighting
accessory charging and even to power
small household appliances the issue
that we run into is that these devices
use very small amounts of it and desktop
computers need a lot now one option we
did legitimately consider was combining
multiple basic power bricks I mean the
450 W version of our Pico PSU here
actually has two barrel plugs for two
inputs so if two is good then more must
be be better right well
wrongish the thing is we only really
considered this to illustrate why it
usually isn't a great idea if both power
supplies are the same it's not the worst
thing but even two units of the same
model might have slightly different
output voltages which can lead to back
feeding voltage drops or unexpected side
effects and if the two power supplies
are rated for very different output
amperages one could end up overloaded
while the other is underloaded our next
brilliant idea was to look for the
cheapest high current 12volt power
supply we could find this one is
typically used for big LED arrays and
can do up to 240 or 250 Watts depending
on how you do the math let's see how it
goes we do still have some other ideas
to get over the finish line here but
before we do let's talk about what
differentiates a quality PC power supply
like this one from our sponsor cic from
a bottom of the barrel unit like this
one a quick word of Warning by the way
guys while our LTT screwdriver LTT
store.com is a highquality screwdriver
it does nothing to protect you from the
dangers of opening a power supply and
you should not be doing this yourself
unless you are a professional and
positive that you know how to avoid
electrocuting yourself and with that
done I think it's pretty apparent which
one is better even if you have no idea
what any of this stuff does but for the
sake of Education let's explain it
filtering capacitors smooth out the
delivery of power without them a sudden
Spike or drop in voltage recurrent can
cause some big issues on cic these are
large and plentiful made by nipon
chemicon one of the top brands of
Japanese caps if you were to try to
reverse engineer this unit this bad boy
cap right here would cost you like $6 on
its own over here we've got a handful of
electrolytic caps from the likes of
Chong X and DK both of which have some
pretty stellar reviews
online voltage regulation modules you
know them you love them they ensure that
your components get exact the voltages
they need on the seic unit they're
attached to a 90° daughter board with a
big Toral coil for each different
voltage on our no name there are none
vrm Duties are handled on our picco unit
with RB boards using what appears to be
a cloned Texas instrument switching
regulator along with these 4.7
microhenry inductor coils moving on to
rectifiers these are usually just a
series of diodes that turn AC into DC on
our cic unit they're in fan made
attached to nice big heat sinks with a
fan right above them meanwhile on our
no-name power supply they're made by
Fairchild and vishe general
semiconductor both actually respectable
Brands this time assuming they're
genuine but in terms of cooling um
they're just what thermal padded to the
outside of the chassis on the subject of
cooling seic has a followup to this unit
that has some cool innovations that I'm
going to talk about later first I want
to show you how we can complete our
mission of our near zero budget power
supply and if you guessed it was
Facebook Marketplace to the rescue
you're right now anyone Savvy enough to
remove the power supply from their
electronic Gizmo is going to know that
it's worth something on its own so save
yourself some trouble don't search for
12volt power supply or power supply for
thing X search for broken thing x a for
parts gaming laptop or Mini PC is a
really good start some of them use
proprietary plugs and often get
discarded plugs that can just be cut off
to get access to the good juicy wires
with that said most laptop bricks these
days are actually 20 volt so we would
need to Buck the power down to 12 which
requires additional parts and labor that
we don't want to deal with fortunately
there are other options game consoles
typically hit their cheapest point when
they're two generations old meaning that
Wiis PS3s and Xbox 360s are cheap and
plentiful right now now the 360 went
through a ton of revisions with the
first unit being both the most power
hungry and the most likely to fail so a
203 watt brick from a red ringed Xbox
could be a great candidate for our use
case except that the proprietary
connector is a bit more of a hassle than
usual in this case and there's no reason
to deal with that when there's a better
alternative the fat PS3 now there were
probably more versions of the PS3 than
most people realize of the 120 volt
models there were 19 different power
supplies made by five different
companies ranging from 160 Watts all the
way up to a whopping
399 watts of them the most powerful four
all came from fat PS3s manufactured
between 2006 and 2008 with these codes
in their part numbers now models A and B
are worth their weight in gold on
account of their PS2 backwards
compatibility but the other three can be
found for about 20 bucks fairly easily
or even for free if they're broken the
best thing about these early model PS3
power supplies though is that they
attach to the motherboard with
cylindrical plugs that perfectly fit a
standard 4mm banana plug the kind that
you might find on consumer audio
equipment just make sure that if your
banana plug has a metal housing though
that it is completely covered so that
you don't accidentally start a fire
while you're digging through the trash
of your local stereo store for banana
plugs by the way be sure to grab some 12
gauge stereo wire as it will work
perfectly for carrying this much current
any smaller though and yeah you're going
to be back in fire bill then we jumper
pins one and five on this little white
connector right here that's the
equivalent of jumpering the green and
black wires on an ATX power supply plug
in our salvaged AC socket here and I
think it's time to power it on let's see
what
happens and there we have it not only is
it working we're running cyberpunk 2077
I mean on a 4060 so you know it doesn't
look amazing but it's running the whole
system is even shockingly quiet does
does this PS3 power supply even have a
fan in it no oh is that bad yes ah okay
so you might want to account for another
couple of dollars in your $40 budget if
you wanted to replicate something like
this but I think there is one more
question remaining and that is whether
you would even want to why don't we send
this thing over to the labs to test and
this time I'm taking off your cute
little test is 275 watt sticker that was
to ensure that it survived the first
time around let's take it all the way to
the limit when we first gave this to
Lucas from the labs team for testing we
asked him to treat it like a 275 wat
power supply since that's all we really
needed for our PC that increased its
odds of survival but probably also
negatively impacted its efficiency
numbers so let's try that again and it's
rated 384 watts of output so it it died
yeah well it did manage to be a little
bit more efficient but at the cost of
the power supply as a whole in
conclusion does it work yes um is it
worth it I'll let you be the judge of
that but if you decide that this looks
like a lot of hassle for not a lot of
benefit why don't you check out our
sponsor seic their upcoming focus and
core power supplies moved several of the
heat generating components onto a
dedicated daughter board that includes a
perforated copper ground plane
essentially acting as a heat sink within
the PCB itself this allows them to
dissipate more heat using less space and
cic told us that this new optis sync
design as they call it will be eight
times more efficient at conducting heat
and offer an increase in both
performance and reliability long term
and because optis sync is also cheaper
to produce seic is launching the next
generation of focus units at $10 less
than the MSRP of the current V3 models
you can expect them to show up sometime
late this year and we're going to have a
link to them down below where you can
learn more if you guys enjoyed this
video why not check out the time seic
made a power supply that put the buck
converters and connectors into a
separate chassis it was pretty wild and
I kind of wish it caught on